Jia Garcia
Cindy Tong
Anne Sebastian
9/8/25
CMSI 2210
Homework 2


1. What is a computer system?
   1. A set of layers; each layer works on actions of the one beneath it
2. What are some of the parts of a computer system?
   1. Digital Logic, Control, Machine, System Software, Assembly Language, High-level Language, User
3. What is the difference between a compiled language and an interpreted language?
   1. Compiled language is compiled and not interpreted; once it is compiled, it is instructions for the target machine, and the machine code is undecipherable to humans. In contrast, interpreted language is interpreted without a compiler for machine instructions. Where the instructions are not interpreted by the machine but by another program. 
4. Is C a compiled language?
   1. Yes, but you must handle the operating system function compilation yourself.
5. Who invented the C language?
   1. Dennis Ritchie
6. How long has C been in use?
   1. Since 1972, after the invention of language B. 
7. Is a compiler a translator?
   1. Yes, it reads the source code and translates it into assembly language.  
8. Is an assembler a translator?
   1. Yes, it reads the assembly code generated by the compiler to translate it into machine language. 
9. What is the command to list out the contents of a directory on a mac terminal window?
   1. ls
10. What does the C function atof() do?
   1. Representation of a number from a string and returning its value as a double
      1. Used Website: https://www.w3schools.com/c/ref_stdlib_atof.php 
11. What are the bottom two layers of a computer system? Give a brief description of each.
   1. Digital Logic layer and Control layer
   2. Digital Logic is the hardware that all the operations of the computer run on. Some hardware parts used include gates, circuitry, motherboards, daughterboards, chips or integrated circuits.
   3. The control layer contains the microcode using the hardware from the digital logic layer. Microcode can use internal software, firmware, or hardwiring components.
12. What are the three steps of the Von Neumann Architecture?
   1. Fetch, decode, execute
13. What is the purpose of an ALU?
   1. It is a part inside the CPU that helps it process by performing operations on inputs, or operands, that can be integers and binary. 
14. What is a register?
   1. A register is a part of a basic computer system utilized in the first part of the architext of a stored-program computer. The register stores instructional addresses and data in the CPU for the AoLU to execute the instructions. Its results can also end up in another register or in the main memory. 
15. What is one difference between Application software and System software?
   1. Application software is written for people to read, and System software is less human-friendly, a high-level language because it is for the computer to read. 
16. Is the phrase cmp rdi, rsi machine language?
   1. No, it is not machine language as it is not written in binary, but instead it is assembly language.  
17. How many buses are included in the system bus?
   1. 3
18. What is the decimal value of 100101112?  
   1. 302
19. What is the decimal value of 111111112?   
   1. 510
20. What is the largest unsigned integer value that will fit into 16 bits?
   1. 2^(16) = 65535